# UltimateProject

Our idea is to create a mobile app designed to help keep track of stats for sporting events. We have found that there are already stat/scorekeeping apps for major sports like baseball and football, but there is next to nothing, digital or physical, for sports that are still growing or more niche, like ultimate frisbee and disc golf. Ultimate frisbee will likely be our main focus as we start, but we think it would be fairly easy to introduce other sports as well once we get the first sport taken care of, which would allow for the app to be much more widely used.

With our app, you could pick a sport from a menu which would bring up a template where you could enter jersey numbers and/or player names and then enter in what happens (completed pass, foul, drop, etc) into the app from the sideline as the game goes on. Then when the game is over, you could upload or push the game stats to a computer or external server where you are able to do some more advanced things with the data. This will be much easier than carrying around a notebook and having to try to write down things when it is rainy or windy. We also had the idea of being able to save rosters of certain teams and pre-load those at each new game to prevent someone from having to enter the same information over and over again. We plan to be able to save games that have been completed indefinitely and let the user push them to an external server or database when they choose. This functionality would allow for the user to avoid data usage on their phone and wait until they are on wifi to send the information from their phone to the external database.

After having uploaded game stats online, we plan to be able to put data together so a user can see a certain player’s stats over a range of games, similar to season stats. You will also be able to view individual games to see results and who did what in that specific game, giving teams the ability to have a better idea of the performance of individual players as the year goes on, which can be tough to track. Another idea we on the desktop side of things was to implement some sort of gamecast system where people can follow the game as stats come in on their laptop if someone is pushing the stats to the server real-time. Especially In ultimate, teams often travel a long ways from home for games and tournaments, making it difficult for families to follow along. This functionality could be a nice option for people that want to know what is going on, but aren’t able to make the trip to the game.

This project has two main components that need to be built. First is the mobile app portion, where users can do the scorekeeping and stat tracking and save games they follow. Then, there is the desktop half of the project, where we need to be able to use the data recorded in the app and select specific information based on what a user may want to do. There is also some communication between the two pieces that will need to be handled, as we need a way for the information that someone enters in the app to be pushed to a server where it can be accessed and manipulated on a computer.
